I think AI is confusing. There, I said
it. I think there's a lot of terms,
skills, MCPs, agent harnesses that are
difficult concepts to understand. So, I
had my friend Remy come on the podcast
and explain it in the most simple terms
possible. In this free course on how to
master AI agents, he breaks down exactly
what each piece is, how they connect
together, and the simplest ways
beginners could start using them today.
Enjoy the episode.
>> I beg them to come on. Remy Gasill's on
the pod. You've structured your company
where you basically have these folders
and MD files that run your company. And
what I want to do today is I want you to
teach people in a beginnerfriendly
fashion. This is only for beginners. How
they could do the same thing. How they
can set up their own executive
assistant, head of marketing, chief
financial officer. Basically, I want you
to bas to tell us the concepts behind
all this. By the end of this episode,
Remy, do you think you can do that?
>> 100%, Greg. We're going to go through
all the concepts that make up an AI
agent. And by the end of this video, you
will know exactly how you can build up
um agents to run complete departments of
your life and your company within any
agent platform you choose, whether it's
Claude Code, Codeex, Open Claw, Manis,
all of them. All right, let's do it.
>> Sweet. So, one of the reasons why I
really wanted to make this episode is
because I feel like the AI landscape is
moving into like stage two from chat to
agents. And most people are getting left
behind right now just using the chat
models. And uh the founders and
employees that are utilizing agents are
like no word of a lie 10 to 20 times
more productive in their day. And when
you stack that up over days, weeks,
years, you're going to just be miles
ahead of the competition. So, I really
want to make this episode today to help
bring everyone up to where the AI
landscape is at the moment and to start
using agents to manage every department
of your business.
So, the key thing to understand here is
chat models versus agents because the
word agent is thrown around lots online.
And I'm sure you've seen it, Greg, like
AI agents this, agents this, use this
agent for this, and it's kind of lost a
lot of meaning. So, I wanted to give
start by giving a really clear
definition of what an agent actually is.
So, the way I think of it is a chat
model is question to answer, but then an
agent is goal to result. So moving from
just like uh you asking AI replies then
you do the work to you giving the agent
a task it planning out the task and then
executing and then delivering you a
result. Does that make sense?
>> Crystal clear. I mean the way I think
about it is chat is kind of like
pingpong back and forth back and forth.
>> Yeah.
>> And agent is
uh you know you're giving it it's a
goal. I mean the best way Yeah. You're
giving it a goal and you're hoping that
over time it gets better and closer to
that goal.
>> Exactly. Yeah, that's exactly it. And I
just think that's a nice way to lay it
out in your head is chat is question to
answer. Agent is goal to result. So when
you chat to an agent, you might give it
a task like build me a website for XYZ
and then it goes away, it does its work
and outputs this wonderful website to
you. But it's really important to
understand what's actually happening in
this step here. So inside this agent
step, we have what's called the agent
loop. So you give it your prompt or task
and it goes through these three steps
here, which is observe, think, and act.
So, let's just say for example, um we're
actually going to do this demo after
this, but if we gave the agent a simple
task like build me a minimalist
portfolio site for Greg Eisenberg, it's
going to start by like you've loaded in
that prompt. It's going to check if
there's any files in the workspace that
it can work with, like maybe you've got
some information on Greg Eisenberg. Um,
and then it's going to think about what
to do next. It's going to act and then
it just keeps going through this loop.
So for that actual example of building
the portfolio site for Greg Eisenberg,
let's just say it was a blank agent, we
hadn't given it any context. The first
thing is it's received this prompt to
build the website. And the first thing
it's going to be thinking about is,
okay, well, I need to build this website
about Greg. Who the hell is Greg
Eisenberg? So it's going to then decide
to do some research into Greg Eisenberg.
It's going to research everything about
Greg and then feed it back into this
observe step. So then it's going to
think to itself, okay, so I've got this
prompt to build a website. I've now got
my research here, so I know exactly who
Greg Eisenberg is. And then it's going
to start thinking, what is the next
step? And the next step is probably to
write up a plan to build the website. So
it might write up that plan, feed that
back in. Now it's got the research, the
prompt, the plan, and it will think, all
right, what next? I should probably
write the code. to write the code, feed
it back in, and it just keeps going
through this loop as many times as it
needs until it can conclude uh that the
task is complete. And how it concludes
that the task is complete is based on
the parameters that you set in your
prompt. So, you know, if you're giving
it a research task, you might say
compile 10 sources and then create a
report as a PowerPoint. And then once
it's compiled 10 sources and built the
report as a PowerPoint, it can conclude
that the task is complete and then give
you the output as the user. The the
agent itself
>> is made up of these four components. So
it's the LLM which is the brain behind
it. So think like you know Claude Opus
4.6 or GPT 5.4 or Gemini 3. It's the
model. Uh, it's got the loop, which
means it just keeps going until the task
is done and doesn't stop after one
response. So, you're going from pingpong
to like it continuing to go rather than
you having to sit there babysitting it.
Uh, it connects in all your tools and
then it connects in all the context. And
a platform that facilitates this process
and basically facilitates this loop to
happen is known as an agent harness.
And all of the popular AI agent
platforms on the market that you'd be
familiar with are just agent harnesses.
They're just applications where this
loop is facilitated.
And I want to actually run this little
prompt I prepared earlier. I want to
open up codeex claw code and
anti-gravity. And I'm going to show you
this loop uh actually happening in
action. So I've uh nicely prepared
before the episode these three demo
folders which we're going to run in. So,
I'm going to open up demo one to work in
in Claude code. And the way these
folders work is if you've used if you're
familiar with like any of the chat
models like Claude and Chatgbt, there's
a projects feature which is where um if
I open it up actually, try not to get
dizzy with me switching tabs so much.
But, you know, if we create a a project
here, it contains all your chats in one
place. It allows you to upload all your
sources here, which is your context. And
then you can even add custom
instructions which tells it how to
behave within this project. And that's
also known as a system prompt which
we're going to dive into how to do this
with agents as well later. But it's a
similar concept that you'd be familiar
with if you've used projects before. But
instead of the project being here on the
cloud, we're actually working within
projects that are local in our computer.
So I've just selected this demo one for
now. Then we're going to run build a
minimalist portfolio site for Greg
Eisenberg. And then this little bit here
just tells it to actually spin it up
like to publish it on the web uh in a
preview mode so we can see what it's
done. So I'm going to run that.
>> So So this is this is um Claude Code.
>> Yes. Yeah. Right now we're in Claude
Code and this is just accessing it
through the desktop app for Claude.
Um, so I'm just going to run that.
And then I'm also going to give the same
prompt to codeex here. So this is the
codeex app. And you can see same
concept. It says let's build. We can
choose a folder on our computer to work
in like demo 2. And then we're going to
give that a prompt as well. And we're
going to tell it to host it on a
different one.
And then also in anti-gravity. So you
can see same concept. We're going in
selecting a folder and then we will
give it the prompt as well.
>> How should people think about security
and these different products?
>> I like to think of security as in just
like scoping what they have access to.
So, by default, anti-gravity cla code
and codeex, they're very very secure
because they're built by these massive
companies that have a lot on the line um
to protect. And I just, you know, if you
if you're building out these agents to
manage different elements of your
business, like the other week I built
one um that does manages meta ads and
obviously that's quite a risky thing to
give an agent control over managing ad
budgets. So it just comes down to like
what you feel comfortable giving the
agent and also you can control what
privileges or you can control what um
tool permissions it has access to so
that if it was compromised for whatever
reason the worst case like isn't that
bad and that means you know just giving
it like readon access to certain
important platforms and stuff like that.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah totally. I mean comparing it to
like open claw which is like
>> way
>> which I want to touch on at the end as
well cuz that's same thing just another
harness but it's just like the wild
west.
>> Cool.
>> Uh and one thing like a nice little
analogy to think about these harnesses
is what we're going to learn today is
we're going to learn to drive. So we're
going to learn about how to you know
steer the car like how the pedals, the
brakes work, the accelerator works, the
handbrake. But then once you know how to
drive, you can kind of jump in any car,
whether it's like a old Toyota, a Range
Rover, and you inherently sort of know
what to do. And that just comes down to
understanding all these key concepts
that we're going to go through today.
And you can think of the agent harnesses
like different cars. And some of them
will have better features like seat
warmers and cruise control, but it's all
once you know how to drive, you can
pretty much jump in any of them and use
them. So, we've just got our thing over
here building t building the website for
Greg and it's going through this agent
loop right now. So, you can see here
it's actually decided that it's going to
launch um an agent to go and research
Greg Eisenberg and I've connected it up
to Plexity. So, it's now using Plexity
to research Greg. So, it's going through
its first step of the loop. And I
imagine that uh Codeex has also done
something similar here. You can see it's
still working, but it's gone.
And um started to build this out through
the loop. I think Claude code does the
best job of actually displaying that
loop um and allowing you to see what
it's thought about compared to
anti-gravity and codeex,
>> but it's all just going through the same
sort of loop process that I described
earlier. And I think so when you when
you say you hooked it up to Perplexity,
didn't it's not like you asked it to
hook it up, right? It just sort of did
it.
>> Yeah. Because I've um I've given Claude
code perplexity as a tool via MCP,
>> which we're going to get into um very
very shortly. All about MCPs, which is
just connecting tools up.
>> So we can see that in anti-gravity,
it's gone. You can see this thinking
process. It's gone. Um,
I'm now examining the current directory
to figure out if there's an existing
project or if I build one from scratch.
It's then going um I'm now going to
start to build this thing and then it's
built the the website and it's given us
a little local host preview here. So,
it's created this nice little portfolio
site for for you, Greg.
>> What's interesting is like it's super
minimalist and I mean
it it did its job, right? like it. This
is
>> I would totally launch something like
this.
>> It actually looks really nice. Did it
Did it scrape your email address?
Correct.
>> That's That's not my email address. And
I don't live in Canada anymore. So, but
yeah. So, there's a few copy things, but
other than that, uh
>> yeah, it's done a pretty good job.
>> It did.
>> And if we go So, that was anti-gravity.
Um, if we go into Codeex as well, you
can see here it's finished doing its
website, which is somewhat similar.
>> I think I prefer Geminis's.
>> Yeah, I agree.
>> And if we check out Claude as well. Um,
it's still going. You can see this loop,
right? It's gone. Okay, first off, who
is Greg Eisenberg? It's gone and
researched Greg, then fed it back into
that observe step, and it's gone, all
right, what next? Now I need to create
the HTML file. So it's written the the
code and then now it's gone. Okay, so he
wanted it spun up on this local server.
So now I'm going to spin it up on the
server. And then the last iteration of
the loop is to check that it's actually
done and can conclude the task is
complete. It's opening it up and
screenshotting the website and then
reviewing the screenshots to check that
the website is complete. And you can see
here it's done another pretty good job.
This one's very similar to the Gemini
one. Hey,
>> that's true.
Um, but yeah, that's just like demoing
how that loop is actually working in
real time.
>> Yeah. I mean, what comes to mind just by
watching this is like how many people on
the planet would benefit from a very
clean website and like
>> Yeah.
>> How how do you set up these agents so
that like, you know, maybe it's like a
cold email loop, right? Like you're
sending cold emails. Hey, I built you
this website so and so business. Do you
want it? It's going to cost $250.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's actually a great
idea. Um, pre-making websites for
companies and it's like an offtheshelf
thing. It's like, "Hey, I made you this
website. If you want it, like if you
want to own it, it's $250. You can just
do a mass cold email thing."
Uh, cool. So, I think that's like pretty
much illustrated that agent loop
example. So, I'm just going to go um
back to our trusty board over here. But
you can understand that it's just like
all of these apps are just different
flavors of the same thing. And then what
we're going to be working up to today is
my workspace looks something like this
is I have, you know, a big like a a
folder for each company or or client
that I'm working in. And then I'll have
folders underneath with all my heads of
departments.
And then um within those heads of
departments, I'll have skills and MCPs,
which we'll get into, and context. And
then I've got like an overarching one at
the top to just to sort of manage them
all. But we're going to be focusing
today on building out this executive
assistant to take care of just your
manual day-to-day tasks and free up at
least one to two hours extra per day.
Um, cool. So to build this out like we
did uh with our demos, it's running off
your local files. So we're going to
create a folder here called executive
assistant.
And also through building out this
assistant, it's going to allow us to
clearly explain each of the concepts um
of building an agent in real time. And
the way I like to think about building
agents is on boarding them like a real
employee. So, if you took on a real
executive assistant, you couldn't expect
just for them to come into the office
and you to give them a task without
explaining your business first, your
clients, what you do, the tools, um
because they just would not be a very
good executive assistant. So, that's the
first step that we need to go through uh
when we're building out this agent. So,
uh I'm actually going to work
uh in co-work at the beginning. So
co-work is just another agent harness to
do pretty much the same thing as all the
others just that loop connecting in your
tools and the context. So you can see
here um this was my little uh previous
session where I was building some
diagrams
but we can go um and you can follow
along include code or codeex or
anti-gravity or whatever Asian harness
that you want to work in. But I just
think that co-work has really nice
simple UI for people to just understand
really well what's actually going on.
So, we're going to open up this
executive assistant folder.
And you can see here that if we ask it,
write me a cold email
>> and send that off.
>> So, pe So, people are going to ask how
how did you transcribe? You did like a
voice to text.
>> Yeah. So, that is um I use one called
Monologue, but there's a lot out there
on the market. Whisper Flow is another
popular one and it just allows you to
hold a little button on your computer
and just yap away and it will just
transcribe it neatly into text
>> and I find
>> it looks good. Monologue looks really
good.
>> Yeah, I think it's built by the team at
every every
>> um it's a cool product but uh so
what it's asking so it's it's straight
away we've it's got no context here. So,
it's working out of uh that folder here
on our computer, but there's nothing in
the folder,
>> and it has no memory of our previous
sessions. Um, and it's asking like what
like what do you even sell? Um, and then
we got to kind of give it like who do
you target? What tone do you want? This
is all things that our executive
assistant should know. Um, so I'm just
going to stop the response there. And
one thing that's really important to
know which might be a bit of a shock
moving from chat to agents is that these
agents memory work a little bit
different. So if you're used to using
chat models like chat gbt and claude if
you open up a fresh session in the one
of these chats you don't give it any
context. You don't upload any files and
you just say who am I and what do I do?
It's going to know a scary amount about
you. And that's because with these chat
models they have memory built in
automatically. So every time you sort of
say things that are important, the chat
model saves it to its memory in the
cloud that you can't see and you can't
control. And with agents, you have to
set up memory and control exactly what
you give it. And I think that's actually
a benefit, not a limitation. Because
what happens is if you're using chat GBT
and it's got the auto memory, you're
having conversations about three
different companies, maybe you're asking
for relationship advice, and then all of
a sudden, um, when you ask it to write a
landing page copy, it's pulling in
context from all these other places that
you don't really want in there. So, with
these agents, um, you need to actually
set up that context and memory. So, as
you can see, when we asked it to write a
cold email, it just had no idea about
anything. So, we need to give it a
context file. And the way you do this,
right, so you can see this example here.
It doesn't know anything about us. And
that's because we haven't populated
what's called an agents.md file. And an
agents.mmd file is just like a system
prompt. Just like if you've created any
custom GPTs before, you have that field
for custom instructions or in the
project like I just showed before,
you've got that field for custom
instructions and it just gives it this
context that's kind of always there,
always on. And you put in there things
like its role, context about you, um
your preferences for working. And then
what happens is every new session before
it answers your your query or task it
loads in all this context to its brain
as part of that observe step in the
loop. So I have pre-prepared
pardon me.
So I've pre-prepared
a uh agents.mmd file here. So if we drag
this in over here, this uh when you're
working within claude code, it's called
a claude.mmd. When you're working within
Gemini, it's called a gemini.md. But
when you're working within codeex or
openclaw, it's an agents.mmd. But it's
all the same concept. So we can drag
this into our folder here. And if we
open up this file for a little preview,
we can see here I've got in here um all
about me, what my business does, my
working preferences, like the tools that
I use and what for like notion project
management,
>> Stripe. Um
we've got, you know, all the
information, my item customized loaded
with context here. And I pre-prepared
this, but and if you want to make one of
those, you can just use called chat or
co-work. and you can ask it to help you
build out this uh agents.mmd file and to
just ask you interview style questions
to extract all the context from you and
then build the file. So if I jump back
in now, if I go to a new task,
same folder, and we say
write me a cold email, it's going to
have all that context.
>> Yeah, that's what we hope.
>> That's what we hope. Here
we go. And it knows, you can see this
files over here. It knows automatically
to load in this file if you title it
correctly.
>> Yeah, it's basically just like a a
reminder file.
>> Yeah, pretty much. It's just like
loading it in so it has all this set
context before you even start working.
And one of the other big shifts to make
which comes with moving from chat to
agents is prompt engineering used to be
the big thing. It was like, "Here's the
ultimate prompt for going viral on
social media or use this prompt for
this." And now it's all about context
engineering. It's about how well can you
load up your agent with all the
information about your business so that
your prompts can be stupidly simple like
write me a cold email and you're still
going to get an amazing result. Um, you
can see already here it's already asking
like um is it a brand or sponsor,
potential partner or consulting client.
So, it's already got that context. um
book a call.
Um you know, it's it's it's loaded in
everything that we've given it from that
agents.mmd file.
And then now we've got a a pretty decent
cold email there ready to go.
So that's basically agents.mmd files for
you. And you want to create one of those
to onboard your agent with all the
context it needs. And if you have lots
of context, without getting into too
many advanced concepts here, sometimes
what I will do is I will create like a
um a folder called context.
Load that in. And in here, it's got
different files about me, brand, voice,
idle, customer profile, etc., etc. And
then in order to keep this smaller, I
will then just say in this cloud. MD
file um before answering any questions
or before doing any tasks read my
context folder to understand about
myself and my business because by
default if you just have this context
file in here but no claw.md it won't
load all that into the session by
default but if you tell it in this file
that it always loads in to then check
this file you can start to like string
all your context together
and a lot of people have done that with
obsidian so they'll have like in their
claw MMD file, they'll tell it to go
check their Obsidian vault for their
second brain to go and find context.
>> Mhm.
>> So that is agents.mmd files explained.
So that's how you actually when you're
onboarding your agent like our executive
assistant, you can train it up on who
you are and your business. And then as
you can see here, you know, I've got
folders for all these different roles in
my business. And in the head of
marketing, that claude.md file would
look somewhat similar, but in the top it
would say instead like you are my head
of marketing. you speak like this. These
are your tasks. These are your roles.
And then the second thing here is about
memory and the self-improving loop. So,
we've solved the problem now. Um, try
not to get too dizzy with me switching
tabs, but we've solved the problem of
our executive assistant not knowing
anything about us or our business. But
now we have a new problem, which is it
doesn't really remember the intricate
details or your preferences across
sessions unless you're manually going
and updating that claude.md file. So you
can see here if we go
um my favorite color is lavender.
It'll probably say something like got it
noted.
>> Yeah, that makes sense, right? Cuz it's
and it's it's adding where where's that
adding it?
>> Well, it's not adding it. That's the
thing. So we can tell it my favorite
color is lavender and it's gone. The
users just shared that's that thinking
step. It's like the users just shared
>> this like no nothing needed. Good to
know. I'll keep that in mind.
>> But then if we go into a new session,
same folder, and we go, "What is my
fave color?"
Mind my spelling.
It's going to say, "I have no idea what
your favorite color is." Even though we
just told it. And that um is an issue,
you know, because if you're working, you
know, uh you've got like a head of sales
or something and it keeps it signs off
your emails wrong and you tell it, you
correct it and you say, "Never sign off
emails with cheers. Say warm regards."
And it will go, "Okay, got it. Noted."
But then the next day you start working
and it does the same thing again. It's
like my agent's broken. But really, it's
not. It's running off those context
files in the back. And unless you are
manually updating it, it won't know to
save that preference. So what I like to
do is I like to add in
something like this to my agents.mnd
file. So this is just a little simple
thing. You can pause the video and copy
it,
but I like to I'm just going to remove
that context file for now. That was just
to illustrate that example of adding
more. But we're just working with this
one file for now. So, I'm just going to
open this up so I can edit it. And I
will quite often add something on the
bottom like that little snippet. And
this basically just says, actually, you
know what? I might just add it at the
top just so it's there top of mind for
my agent because I think this is really
important.
So, you can see I've just added this in.
It just says read all files in context.
readmemory.mmd. This is what you've
learned over time. And then when I
correct you or you learn something new,
update the relevant section in
memory.mmd. And it's just got a couple
little things here. And it just says
keep memory.md current. When something
changes, update it in place and replace
outdated info. So we can do command S to
save that.
And then I'm going to add another file
here. We can actually just duplicate
this.
And this one I'm going to call memory.m
MD.
And then we can open up this one. And
I'm just going to remove all this
context here.
Um, except I'm just going to keep those
sections.
So memory MD is basically I mean it just
it's what it sounds like, right? It's
basically like you want to,
you know, if the goal is to build, you
know, AI employees that do things for
us, they're going to need to need to
remember our preferences, right? A good
employee remembers preferences.
>> Exactly.
>> And learns over time and not that
compounds. So memory.md
is just a place that you can just make
sure that uh over time it you know your
whatever you're using co-work or
whatever it ends up it ends up getting
compounded getting smarter. So
ultimately
>> you might be trying things like co-work
and and you're you're not getting good
results and a big part of that is you
don't have uh clone MD and memory MD
sort of
>> Yeah.
>> set up. Exactly. Exactly. And now the
thing is some of these agent harnesses
have started to add in this memory
system that we're doing manually telling
it to update. Some of them have have got
that built in automatically like open
claw and I believe like manis and some
of the others have that built in
automatically but it's still important
to understand because it's just doing
the same thing under the hood except
they've just set this up for you. Um, so
we've got this here now. We got our
memory. MD, our claw.md. And then now if
we go back into
co-work. If we do a new session in that
same folder and we say my favorite color
is lavender.
Better remember.
>> For the sake of the demo, I hope that it
that it does what it's told. it it's
going to remember it.
>> You can see here,
>> perfect. It's gone. Good. I'll remember
that. Let me save it to memory. And now
you've got this big memory file that
builds up over time. And whether, for
example, this is your executive
assistant. So it might be saving
preferences like how to sign off emails
or don't connect with clients on Slack.
I always want to keep client coms on
email. But if you're building out like a
head of marketing, it might be
preferences about how you like your ads
structured in Facebook manager. If
you're building if you've got a folder
where you're working on a website or an
app, it might be things like don't use
dark mode and then it will update. So
it'll never use dark mode again. And
they just compound over time. So as you
start to build up these rules,
>> the amount of errors go down and and
this just compounds and compounds over
weeks and months. Remy, have you seen
some of these memory MD files get so big
that at a certain point it's just
ineffective?
>> Great question. I personally haven't had
that happen to me yet. I haven't hit
that threshold.
>> Um, but a best practice for those
claw.md files is to keep it around like
no more than 200 lines. And yeah, I
could imagine if you started to build
this up over years and years, you'd
eventually hit a point where all the the
rules are stepping on each other's toes.
Um, and you know, you could probably go
through and do a bit of like a manual
clear, but I haven't hit that threshold
yet.
>> Cool. So, people don't need to worry
about
cluttering their memory.
I wouldn't worry too much. I mean, if
it's saving like this, like the silliest
little things like the tiniest
corrections, you can maybe update that
claw. MD to say only save like
substantial corrections, you know, and
then you can have a bit more control
about what it's saving.
>> So, that's probably Yeah. Yeah. What I
would do there. But once you've set this
up, now when you say something like quit
writing so formally, it's going to do
the task then update it agents.mmd or in
this case claw.md to keep tone casual,
never formal. And then now in any new
sessions, it's going to keep that
preference over time, which is pretty
cool. So now we've got our executive
assistant set up with uh memory and
we've given given him his role. We now
need to connect our tools because by
default, most of these agent harnesses,
they just um have web search baked in.
But if you want to actually start
linking it up to your tools like Gmail,
Calendar, and everything else, which is
where the real productivity gains are
made, you need to do so uh via what's
called MCP.
And I actually got Greg, I got this MCP
explanation from when you had on um is
it Ross Mike?
>> Ross Mike. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So this he did a great explanation
and it just dropped into my head really
nicely and it's basically that before
MCPs
your agent or your LLM in order to speak
to tools it had to kind of learn their
language cuz Claude speaks English,
notion speaks Spanish, Gmail French,
your browser speaks Japanese and Slack
speaks Chinese and it was capable of
connecting to those tools but it like
required these extensive custom
developments that took a long time. But
then uh Anthropic actually created MCP.
Is that right?
>> Yep, that's right. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Anthropic built MCP to basically sit as
this translator in between your tools so
that Claude can still just speak English
and your tools can just speak their
languages and this MCP speaks every
language and then just translates your
calls from your uh agent to the tool and
then from the tool back to your agent.
So just set a really easy standardized
way to connect tools up and that's what
we're going to be using to connect all
of the tools to our executive assistant.
So if we go back into co-work here, you
can see that Claude make it really
really easy to connect up your tools.
You can just go to connectors, browse
connectors, and they've got like
hundreds of all the like biggest apps
that you probably use and you can just,
you know, add them, sign in. Pretty
self-explanatory.
But I believe codeex would be the exact
same. You know, you can go um skills or
um if we go settings, they probably have
like a and then like Manis is the same.
For example, if you go into Manis, we
can see uh we can go and connect our
tools. Very very similar process. And
then same with perplexity computer. You
know, you got your connectors and you
can connect all your tools in here. It's
just all using that um model context
protocol MCP.
So, I've already before the episode gone
and connected all of the tools that I
use most like Gmail, Google Calendar,
Granola, Notion. They're all set up
already as MCPs. And what I'm going to
do now is I'm actually going to um open
up this executive assistant folder in
Claude Code to sort of demonstrate how
these harnesses are all the same and
they work off your local files. And the
real future proof AI stack is just
having those markdown files on your
computer. And the reason why I like to
work in markdown files is because it's
just the easiest sort of format um for
your LLM, for your agent to actually
digest and understand compared to if you
were to give it your files as like a
docs or a PDF file. So I like to use
claude code within Visual Studio Code.
Um so you can see here I'm just going to
it looks very similar to anti-gravity.
I'm just going to open up our executive
assistant folder here. And the way that
I see the future of this all going,
Greg, is I think that everyone's going
to have their what I call an AIOS, like
an operating system. And this will just
compound over time, like you saw with
adding the rules and getting less
errors, but with adding your tools and
then skills, which we'll get into, which
is basically just training AI on your
processes. And I think that everyone's
going to have like an AI operating
system they work in. And everyone will
just have personal agents and agents to
manage each department of their company.
And people won't actually use these apps
anymore. Like I've connected up Gmail,
uh, Google Drive, Calendar, Granola for
my meeting notes, Stripe for payments,
notion for project management, and I
don't even enter these tools anymore. I
just sit in Claude Code as one central
place. And an example here is I sent
myself before the episode, I sent myself
an email from a fake prospect and I also
entered in Granola a fake meeting with
this prospect. So now I can say things
like um
summarize my inbox from today.
>> Um you know someone might ask like well
how important is that really? You know
like
is that such a high value task? Like are
what are high value tasks that you're
actually getting done here?
So
I'm
>> or or maybe you get a lot of emails you
know
>> well if you know emails is a big thing
if you do get a lot of emails but just
having like all those tools connected in
one place and not having to switch and
and copy paste context. So you'll see an
example here, right? So we've got
summarize my inbox from today, which is
like one of the most basic agent tasks
ever. But we can see this is one I sent
earlier. We've got this one email here
like our call today. Excited after your
call wants next steps. So I might just
say here, um,
okay, great. I review my meeting notes
with Maltoshi from today and then draft
up the email sending the proposal and
creating the Stripe payment link and
then go into notion and set up the
project. And where this starts to
compound even more is when you start to
build out skills for each of your
processes. Because every time I do a
process even like this manually
prompting it um and I know I'm going to
do it again at some point, I'll then
just turn that into a skill. Uh and then
you eventually end up if you automate
like three to five tiny manual processes
each week with skills, you eventually
end up um automating like your entire
life with these agents,
>> right? So it's it's not so much in like
summarize my my emails where it's super
super valuable. It's like that's where
the starting point is and then we want
to like manipulate it and use it and go
deeper and stuff like that. That's when
>> connecting the
>> these tools really really are valuable.
>> And you can see here it's now connecting
all my tools. So it's gone into Granola
and found the the full meeting of what
we went through today.
>> It's now going into Stripe to create the
product link.
>> Um
>> and then it's going into notion to set
up the project and then it will it
should create the draft ready for us to
go to send out. that this is really like
a new way of working, right?
>> Yeah, it is. It is. It it it's so new
and I and I even this task, it's really
simple, right? Just sending an email
based on a call with a proposal link and
stuff. But like even if you can just do
something like seven times faster
without having to go into all these
tools, copy the meeting notes into the
page to give it context on your meeting,
it really starts to compound. Then you
start to fit like a week in a day and
then 7 weeks in a week. Um, and you
stack that up over a year and you're
going to be miles ahead of everyone
else. Uh, and when we get into skills,
you're going to see how this continues
to get even better. But, um, you can see
here it's drafted the email. It's pulled
in all these insights from our call in
Granola, which is like where I do my
meeting notes. And then it's created the
Stripe payment link
here, ready to go.
>> That's cool.
And then now I can just go um send this
email and it will use my Gmail
integration to to go and send it. Uh and
then
>> that's really cool.
>> It is. Hey, I think this is the new way
of working. And Cody Schneider, who you
had on the pod the other week, I saw a
tweet from him and he said that in the
future, everyone's going to have like an
AI operating system like this and you're
going to have like the 100x employee
because everyone will come into their
role with a pre-existing AI operating
system and then build out skills for all
their manual processes similar to how I
was describing and just keep building
skills each week for anything manual
that comes up until eventually their
entire life and work life is automated.
Great. As you can see here, it's now
created the draft here in Gmail, ready
for us to to go. And if we're happy with
it in the platform, I could also just
ask CL to send it there and then. Uh,
but then what like also gets really cool
is I'm going to demonstrate now how I
actually build out skills for these
processes. So I know I've talked a lot
about skills so far. I want to just give
a little overview on what skills
actually are.
>> Yeah.
>> So the easiest way to think about skills
is SOPs for AI. So standing operated a
uh standing operated oh my god standard
operating procedures for AI. So it means
you never
>> it means once you explain something once
you never have to explain it ever again.
An example of this is without skills. If
you uh are creating a proposal for a
client and you're sitting in in your
claw chat or whatever agent harness
you're using and you ask it to create
this proposal you're probably going to
go back and forth a bunch of times. uh
remove change the formatting here. Use
this color blue for this part. Um put
the price at the bottom instead of at
the top. And eventually maybe after 15
minutes, half an hour, you land on a
proposal that you're really happy with
and you send it. And then next week you
want another proposal written, but
unless you're going and finding the same
session and working in that same
session, it's going to completely
forgotten all of these preferences. And
even if you have that memory system set
up, these kind of things you don't
really want clogging up your memory.
They're they're better off as skills,
which is basically it packages up that
process into a skill file. And in
thatskill file, it's basically just a a
markdown file that explains the exact
process that you went through. So you
could create a proposal skill and then
every time you now you need a proposal
written it just takes that skill knows
exactly what to do and then you can have
that proposal the same way every single
time.
>> So is a skill like a memory file? Like
what's the difference between
essentially a memory MD
and a skill? like is it just is this is
a is a is it just like a memory MD file
for a particular job to be done?
>> That's pretty much like exactly it. And
all of these agent harnesses pretty much
now have skills as a feature. So you can
see here like if we go into um codeex
for example, they've got skills here. Um
same with Claude as well. And these when
you're working with these agent
harnesses that operate like mostly
locally off your computer, um you can
see here it actually operates out of
this hidden file called a claude folder
skills. And these are all of the skills
that I've created. There's tons. And if
we open one up, for example, um like
this one here, let's find a good one.
For example, I've got this one here for
writing viral hooks.
And in this skill we have a skill file
which is basically like your memory.mmd
which explains the exact process for
writing viral hooks.
And then it's also got packaged in here
some references like hook formulas.
>> Okay. So wait so how did you create that
skill?
>> Okay. So there's two ways that I find
useful to create skills is one you can
have an idea of a skill you want to
create off the bat. So like viral hooks
for example, I had this course on viral
hooks which I transcribed put it into
Claude and Claude has this by default.
It has a skill creator skill added into
it. Same with all of the major agent
harnesses. They'll have a skill creator
skill. So it's kind of like skill
seption. You use the skill creator skill
and you say, "Hey, take this course on
viral hooks and create a viral hook
skill." And it can create it like that.
That's one way. Uh and then it will
package it up nicely with that skill.md.
It'll do the whole thing for you.
>> Wait, the second
>> you asked you asked it to take the
course.
>> Yeah, I uploaded the course like the
full transcript of the course
>> literally
>> and I said uh
>> yeah based on this course on viral hooks
build me a viral hook skill
>> and then I use that for my content team.
So just like we're building the
executive assistant folder, I've got a
folder called content team and I've got
that
>> that uses that skill for me. And the
second way to create skills is going
through a process manually once with
Claude and then if you know you're going
to have to do it again like that
proposal example, you can just say once
you've done the task, hey, create a
skill for what we just did and it will
package up that process you went
through. And that's the second main way
that you can create skills.
>> So in your viral hook example, if you go
into that folder again,
>> Yeah.
>> So you have a references folder.
>> Yeah. So that is
probably
like was that Yeah, let's open it up.
I'm just curious.
>> See here it's got a full thing about
like
>> So was this from the course is a bit
screwed.
>> Yeah, this was basically from like a a
course I put into it.
>> And did you ask it to create a reference
folder? Like how should people think
about
>> No, it just did it. It just did it. So I
think what would be great is if we could
actually um demonstrate building a skill
live. Let's do it.
>> Um, and so for example, like this
process here,
um, I might I could create a skill
called like a daily brief skill, you
know, that goes through and summarizes
like your calendar, your inbox, and your
projects in notion and plans out your
day for you in the morning. And then you
can run that on a scheduled task because
uh, a lot of these agent harnesses now
are starting to introduce schedule
tasks. So you can just run it on 9:00
a.m. every morning. use my daily brief
skill to prepare me for my day. But I
think another cool one here just to show
you an example, right, of how my new
like how intricate I make these skills
is let's just say for this fictional
meeting I had with this person. I might
say um
can you draft up an email? I want to
refer Moltoshi to my good friend
Sebastian who has an AI automation
agency and can help them out better with
their needs.
And then we can just go um
Sebastian's
email is
and we can just say that right and then
now it's going to be able to
take the notes from granola all the
context and then draft an email
connecting these two um a prospect with
a friend and you know I have different
like referral things set up like that
with people in marketing agencies and
that's just like a little manual process
there tiny maybe takes 15 minutes out of
my
But then I can just go,
I want you to use your skill creator
skill and create a Sebastian refer skill
so that whenever I ask you to refer
someone to Sebastian,
you know exactly what to do and you know
his email address
and then that'll build out that tiny
skill for us, tiny process, but it means
I like I know in the future I'm going to
have to refer refer someone to Seb
again. And even if this skill now saves
me 15 minutes, another five or six
times,
>> they start to compound when you create
skills for every single little process
in your business.
>> Yeah. I guess it's like
we should just be asking ourselves like
you know in our day-to-day life like
what are all the jobs to be done
>> and what are all skills that we need
like what are the repet repetitive
processes or SOPs as you
>> talked about and then just setting up as
many as possible right to make our lives
easier.
>> Exactly. And just to give you a little
demo here. So I sort of alluded to that
folder structure at the start of the
video and this is it here. So I've got
workspaces AI with Remy and for example
I can open up my content team
and within this folder I this is just
like an more elaborate version of our
executive assistant but we've got our
claude.mmd in here which explains
um you are like the main orchestrator.
you have these sub agents. It's just a
more elaborate version of that claw.mmd.
But I've got a skill within this for
like a meta ads analysis. So that was a
process. For example, if you're a
marketing agency owner, this is probably
like the kind of stuff that you can get
inspiration from. Um like ads analyzing,
you know, taking competitors ads
libraries, breaking down all the
creatives um and their landing pages.
So, I built out this ads analyst skill
where I literally just do ads analyst
and then I paste in like the ads library
URL like that and I'll click run. And I
did an example yesterday with the Udy,
which is a super large ecom brand, and
it ran through and basically scraped all
of it took screenshots of all the
landing pages. It went and scraped all
of the ads that they running, all like
220. It then did a full deep dive here
on all the ads, visual analysis, copy
analysis, why did this work, what could
be improved. It basically did a
breakdown of all the landing pages with
screenshots.
>> Mhm.
>> And it did a master report here about
everything that's going on. So did just
did a full breakdown. And that was like
a manual process that I would have gone
through when I used to run like my
marketing agency. And that probably
would have taken me like three or four
hours. And then I went through to build
out this skill. I went through the
process once with Claude. Like I started
a fresh session and I was like, "All
right, go to this ads library URL,
scrape this, do this, do this, do this
for like 2 hours." And then after I'd
done the entire process, I just said,
"Use your skill creator skill to make a
skill for ads analyzing and package up
the entire process we just went through
as a skill." And then now whenever I
want to do that process again, I can
just invoke the skill and and it knows
what to do
>> which is pretty cool.
>> Crazy. Crazy.
>> Absolutely crazy. So So now the the
refer Sebastian skill is live and now
whenever I want to refer someone to
Sebastian again, I can just say um yeah,
refer to Sebastian and it will just
start to use it will use that skill.
That's example there tiniest process but
you build like those up for all these
little tasks you do dayto-day. And then
it just compounds and compounds and
compounds. And I can already think of an
idea here where you could then you can
chain skills together. So you could
example have like a a meeting prep skill
that prepares you for a meeting by
researching the guest um and compiling
some talking points. You might have like
a podcast research skill, for example,
Greg, for a guest that's coming on. And
you might also create a morning brief
skill. And in the morning brief skill,
you can say if there's any meetings uh
coming up or podcasts in my day, use the
podcast research skill
um to research the the the guest and you
can like chain them together uh and
build like some really really cool
workflows.
>> Yeah. And you can have it so it sends
you an email, right?
>> Yeah. Exactly. And then now these
harnesses are starting to get more and
more autonomous. like they're starting
to add like you know in the car they're
starting to add like cruise control and
stuff like now within most of these
harnesses you can schedule tasks
um like in co-work now and you can like
for example this one here you can go new
task and I could say like uh run my
morning briefing skill
and then set that to go every every
morning at 9:00 a.m. And then now it's
like an automated workflow that like
you've just got running every morning
now, which is pretty cool.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm doing this right now. Like
for example, I'm I'm buying a new car
right now and it's like a particularly
unique
>> like color that I want and feature set
and there's just none none really
available. So, you know, every 3 hours I
I I'm scraping all the different car
marketplaces
>> and and then I'm getting a notification
that, you know, when something comes up
and it's it's crazy, right? Like it
saves me.
>> I'm one of those people that like
>> if I didn't have this, I would be
spending an hour of my day just like
checking
>> religiously every single, you know,
CarMax and cars.com and Autotrader and
all these websites and refreshing like a
insane person.
>> Um, so yeah, the schedule great example
there, but you know this like this is a
skill that would be relevant for my
executive assistant. Same with that car
one. That could be a good executive
assistant skill. But then I've got those
more elaborate skills built out for
like, you know, my um content team, that
ads library scraping one. And then um
I've got like, you know, re a research
weekly research skill for my newsletter
team. And that runs on a schedule every
Thursday morning to go and scrape like
I've built the skill out. So it goes and
scrapes Twitter and Reddit to find
what's new in AI. Um but yeah, skills
are so so powerful. um combine them with
like your MCP so it can use your tools
and then you can start to just train up
your agent on all the processes in your
business. And I did a um a buildout on
OpenClaw for a agent to manage meta ads
and it went pretty viral and the the way
I built this was with all these key
concepts. So open claw functions the
exact same way. So I pro I hope it
hasn't timed out but I've remote
accessed into my open core dashboard
here and you can see it's just operating
off an agents.mmd file in the back end
>> but instead of the claw folder it's in a
open core folder and then it's got a
couple of these other ones here it's got
a memory MD it's got some of these other
ones that it's added on like a soul
which tells it its personality and an
identity which tells it who it is but
it's that same concept of markdown
context file
connecting your tools and then creating
skills. So that uh meta ads manager one
that went pretty viral, I just planned
it out with claude. I was like I want to
have this open core manage my meta ads.
Help me write the agents.mmd file to
tell it you are my meta ads media buyer.
You do these processes and then I
created skills. So I created a ad
creative skill. Um, so it knew to go
look in the Dropbox folder and create
creatives. I created a copywriting
skill, so it knew how to write good copy
for the business. Um, and I just built
out there's probably maybe 15 different
skills, and then I would combine
scheduled tasks, which is cron jobs with
skills and the context files, and then
just give it all the tools it needed.
Um, and just following the same process
as we just went through to build the
executive assistant, I had an open claw
meta ads media buyer, which was sick.
>> I love it. And for the beginner, are you
like, would you recommend people, you
know, use openclaw or should they be
using co-work or manis and some of the
ones you showed?
>> So, great question. Uh, I would say that
openclaw is probably like one of the
hardest to learn and set up of these
harnesses. I would say coowork is
probably the easiest.
>> I think perplexity computer. You did a
video on it. Um it's pretty simple too.
Same with man.
>> Um but I would definitely learn um and
get comfortable using like claw code or
um one of these other ones before I
started to play around with open claw.
And I would also uh have all the
processes built out in claude code
first. So, for example, that executive
assistant over the next uh two weeks, I
might build out a bunch of skills like
the Sebastian refer skill, um like a
daily brief, meeting prep, etc., etc.
And then once I'm happy with how it's
all functioning in claw code, then I
could look to migrate that into open
claw where it has that more autonomous
nature to it. So, that's kind of how I
think about using open core and those
other harnesses.
>> Yeah. Cool. All right. Anything else you
wanted to um cover.
>> I mean, like really there's no right or
wrong way to run these. Like that was
the executive assistant. I've got ones
built out for all the other departments
in my business and then other businesses
I work on, I have the same. Um and you
can just kind of build out that
structure with what works for you. Um
you've got like one other thing to
mention is global versus project level,
which I'll just go over super quick. So
like those skills for example um you can
add them at a global level which means
they apply to every single project you
work in whether it's the executive
assistant your head of marketing and
some skills you want globally because
you might use them in every chat um like
a
um truncate skill that I created which
just makes whenever I want to make
something shorter it makes it shorter
without compressing the sentences but
just removing sentences that don't to be
there and that's something I want in
every session. So I've got that in
global but you can have project level
skills like that um Sebastian refer
skill I would not want that with my
marketing head of marketing cuz it's
just like clogs up the context and you
don't need it there. Um, so I would have
that as a project level for example. And
you can have um global skills versus
project skills, global uh claw.mmd
versus project claw.mmd. And same with
MCPs. You can have global MCPS and
project MCPS. That's probably the other
concept um to go over. But look, other
than that, that's pretty much the entire
agents crash course. So, it's just that
loop running in the back end to complete
your task and connecting in your tools,
your context, and the LLM all in one
place. Uh, and I would just say to to
work out what roles you want to start to
build out an agent for, go into claw or
your favorite chat model and get it to
help you build out those uh context
files through an interview style
process. Just say, "Ask me questions to
build this out." I would connect all the
tools that you need and then start
building out the skills through daily
use and then pretty soon you can have
like pretty powerful AI agents built for
every single um aspect and department of
your business.
>> Remy, thank you so much. I'll include
links uh in the show notes in the
description where you can go follow him,
get to know him a little bit better, and
uh I appreciate you coming on and
dropping some sauce. Thank you, man.
>> Thank you so much for having me on,
Greg. It's fin.